
Text-Analytics-Homedepot.com
Predict the Relevance of Search Results on Homedepot.com - Kaggle Dataset
Internet shopping is a phenomenon which is growing rapidly over the past few years. Consumers are shopping more and more online compared to instore purchases, realizing this huge market potential for online shopping retailers are focusing on this area. In order to reap expected benefits from this online shopping model, providing an excellent shopping experience is a key factor. Customers pay more attention to online shopping experience. Many bad shopping experiences come from the difficulty in finding the right products. When customers are unfamiliar or unclear with the products they want, it makes the searching harder and the shopping experience annoying. In order to address this problem, the ordering of the products listed in the search listed should be based on their relevance to customer search query.
One of the ways which retailers use to measure relevance between search and product pair is evaluation by human raters. Who assigns relevance to products based on their understanding of the product functionality by reading the product description and attributes and then give a score. However, human rating is a slow and subjective process. In the retail industry, there are almost infinite search/product pairs so it is impossible for human raters to give a relevance score to all possible search/product pairs.
Therefore, many online retailers are working on a relevance model that would be better at mimicking the human understanding and comparing process, and predicting the relevance score of search/product pairs. The process of comparison and scoring is a nonlinear process. Therefore, a nonlinear model, such as a deep learning model, can be used for the relevance scoring.
The first step in building such a relevance model is to build some vectors to represent this product information. The natural way to implement it is to use word-vector representation, and then aggregate the vectors coming from all the words in description and attribute terms or search terms into a single vector. The next step in the relevance model is to give a relevance score based on the search vector and product vector.
All relevant files to be uploaded soon

