
Natural-Language-Processing-in-imdb-dataset
The real world is filled with text data and is usually messy hence cleaning and handling text is an important step towards making smarter Machine Learning algorithms. IMDB dataset is one of such usual messy data set which hides a lot of information under the hood which is awaiting to be discovered. IMDB holds sentiments of a bunch of people which can give away a lot of insights about the movie itself, understanding such sentiments can boost any production house income. The derived information can be very useful in building customized recommendations for users based on their reviews. And these models can be used to find unhappy customers, the reason for dissatisfaction and so on. Sentiment analysis is a great tool for the same.
The dataset contains positive and negative reviews (Binary Classification) to train the sentiment analysis model and predict the outcome for unseen/test data.
Ironically despite the abundance of data, most of the real-world data is not labelled, or at least not labelled to exactly suit the requirements. Active learning can be used to divide this data into clusters, analyses each cluster and provide suitable labels to each cluster once a good cluster model is achieved. The clustered data can then be used as labelled data for further analysis.
So here we have come with an interesting problem for movie buffs. The following project consists of IMdB data set where there are reviews of each movie. Here, we need to classify the reviews into positive and negative sentiments thus classifying the movies having the most good reviews. You should also try to find out the keywords in reviews which are defining the overall reviews of the movie. This will help in knowing the movies or genre of movies performing best and later on you can check out those movies if you have not. Such kind of problems are generally handled by Data Scientists working in IMDB, movie directors, movie review writers, and Bookmyshow to explore the people perspective on different movies.

