
Data
This repository contains various corpora and textual data that I often use
while experimenting with various statistical models (see
https://github.com/jlund3/modelt). Storing data like this in git isn't ideal,
but it is convenient.
Newsgroups
20 Newsgroups is a well known (perhaps even over used) dataset consisting of
20,000 usenet postings from the early 90's. The documents are equally
distributed from 20 different newsgroups on a variety of topics. Note though
that many of the newsgroups are similar in nature (e.g. talk.region.misc and
soc.religion.christian).
Each subdirectory of the dataset names a specific newsgroup. Each file in the
subdirectory is a posting. Note that each file has a header that describes the
document metadata in more detail. This header should not be included as part of
the posting, and can be skipped by reading the file after the first blank line.
This dataset is also available in a form with duplicate documents removed. The
duplicates are usually due to cross posting between newsgroups.
Amazon
This is a collection of roughly 40,000 product reviews on Amazon. The txt file
contains the text of the reviews. Each line consists of a document id followed
by the review text. Each line of the review file consists of a document id
(corresponding to the txt file), and the number of starts (1-5).
Enron
The Enron dataset includes emails which were made public during the Federal
Energy Regulatory Commision investigation of the company. Subsequently, the
Linguistic Data Consortium labeled a subset of the emails. We include just
those emails which have annotations.
Bible
This dataset is the King James version of The Holy Bible. Each line consists of
a single verse of text. The line format is as follows:
Book.Chapter.Verse VerseText
The dataset also contains cross references within the bible from
http://www.openbible.info/labs/cross-references/, along with some slight
cleanup and reformatting. Each line in the cross reference file contains a cross
reference of the format:
Book.Chapter.Verse Book.Chapter.Verse
Ambient
The Ambient (AMBIgous ENTries) dataset contains a set of topics, sub-topics and
ranked search results with snippets for the purpose of testing web search clustering.
It has 44 topics, each with 100 results.
Moresque
Moresque (MORE Sense-tagged QUEries) is a complement to Ambient.
It contains 114 topics, each with 100 results.
State of the Union
This dataset contains all of the text of the state of the union speeches up to
2010. Each file contains a single speech, with the filename giving the
president and the speech number.
Stopwords
Stopwords contains various stopword lists. Each list gives one stopword per
line. Each stopword has been lowercased and stripped of punctuation.

